this video is sponsored by Wix hey kids
let me ask you do you watch the news
often have you attended a school in your
life you ever look at a dollar if the
answer to any of these questions is yes
then chances are you're familiar with at
least a couple United States presidents
but if you're like me prior to last week
you've probably never heard of a United
States Emperor um excuse me good sir but
I should inform you that we're actually
living under an emperor as we speak at
least according to my degree from the
University of Reddit hey that's great
whoa look over there it's someone
criticizing Elon Musk and he's making
typos anyway let me tell y'all a story
about a man named Joshua Norton Norton
was born in England at some point in the
1810s very little is known about the
guy's younger years other than the fact
that he spent most of his youth in South
Africa as part of the UK's colonization
programs he came to San Francisco in
18-49 with a modest amount of wealth to
his name and worked his way up in the
real estate and commodities markets to
become one of the city's wealthiest
citizens all was normal in the life of
mr. Norton until one day when he got a
little too big for his britches you see
in 1852 China was facing a huge famine
so they completely banned the export of
rice naturally San Fran's rice price
began to skyrocket in response to the
reduced supply peaking at 36 cents per
pound norton saw this and decide to buy
a 25 thousand dollar rice shipment from
Peru at 12 cents per pound thinking he'd
corner the market keep in mind that's
around 750 thousand dollars in today's
money little did he know that wasn't the
only shipment coming out of Peru and by
the time he was able to sell it rice was
already back down to three cents a pound
now according to my calculations that
put Lordan at a net loss of a whole
freaking lot he subsequently got into a
year's long court battle with the vendor
who sold him the shipment which only
cost him more money and ultimately left
the man destitute so Norton did what
anybody would do after losing everything
he drank a nice hefty dose of [__] it
all and said you know what
the courts can eat my shorts the house
can eat
my blouse Peru can eat my shoe I declare
myself emperor of these United States
and I'm telling every newspaper in the
city about it and then he did now the
papers could have just been like what a
lunatic and that would have been the end
of it but instead they said you know
what this guy's kind of a meme let's
publish his declaration just forgets in
shackles people across the city had
their laughs and Norton's rise to power
began from here he issued several more
commands to the media and unlike
nowadays people loved having regular
Norton updates shoved in their face
among these announcements was the decree
in 1859 to formally abolish the United
States Congress he also gave out a
mandate to both the Protestant and Roman
Catholic churches to formally ordain him
as Emperor
although these edicts were ultimately
ignored by the powers they were
addressed to they still served to build
Norton's reputation around the city and
before long he was a fully fledged local
celebrity he was easily recognized by
passerby typically sporting a blue naval
uniform and a beaver hat with a peacock
feather in it pretty soon Norton could
expect to receive the Royal Treatment
wherever he went people started to
address him formally on the streets he
had to ride public transport for free
and he even got occasional tax payments
from people sympathetic to his
impoverished living situation oh and get
this
Norton became so famous that toy stores
in the city began selling dolls of the
man for kids to play with
how many people can you think of that
were so legendary that they got dolls
made after them
he got Emperor Norton mr. T and the bear
that Teddy Roosevelt decided not to
shoot that's it really also they're not
backed by actual lawn anyway his
declarations came to be taken relatively
seriously by the populace around him for
example according to Norton saying
Frisco instead of San Francisco would be
punishable by a $25 fine talk to any
Frisco native and you'll find that this
attitude survives to this day with the
help of a local printing firm Norden
even issued his own currency which was
actually accepted by many residents of
the city despite having no backing
behind it whatsoever in fact a few
Norton bucks are still floating around
today is highly valued collector's items
I tried doing the same thing a while
back but unfortunately our nella rubles
are still only worth their weight no
nella rubles of course it wasn't home
Magpies
molasses for a good friend Josh he was
once arrested by a policeman named
Armand bar ba who wanted to throw him in
an asylum for his apparent insanity
needless to say when the public caught
wind of this they'd lost their [__]
minds
irate citizens wrote complaints and
arose all the newspapers published
scathing editorials towards the police
department stray casts were thrown into
wood chippers I don't have any evidence
for that last one I'm just you know
assuming based on what I would do in
this scenario anyway pretty soon the
Chief of Police got the memo and Emperor
Lauren was released unscathed thankfully
Norton issued a royal pardon towards the
man who arrested him and from that point
onward whenever Norton passed a member
of the force they would stop and salute
him so although in many ways he appeared
godlike Thornton was but a mortal and as
mortal sometimes do Emperor Norton
decided to drop dead on a street corner
on January 8th of 1880 however he left
behind a legacy the likes of which most
of us could only dream of beyond just
the comedic value of his many exploits
Norton definitely had his prophetic
moments with some of his orders actually
coming true decades after they were
given on multiple occasions he ordered a
bridge to be built between San Francisco
in the Oakland Bay Area which was
eventually constructed in the 1930s he
also told people to form a League of
Nations to uphold international
interests unfortunately a man yelling in
California wasn't quite enough to
convince the leaders of the world that
such a thing was necessary but who knows
maybe the little Naruto could have
stopped World War one if he had been
just a bit louder
I hope this tale has inspired some of
you young impressionable kids out there
not because I expect any of you to
succeed in the same way Norton did but
just because it's my personal belief
that the world could always use more
oddball vagrants wait a minute
oddball vagrants product placement
sponsor time question do you do
literally anything if the answer is yes
then chances are you could get a lot of
use out of a website powered by Wix you
can give your small business the
professional makeover it deserves or
show off your art and other hobbies in
any style or layout you can imagine even
if you don't do anything with your life
than hey today's as good today as any to
try your hand at web development Wix
does all the heavy lifting for you
meaning even a novice can create
stunning pages of all shapes and sizes
beyond just the aesthetic aspect
Wix also offers tons of other services
for your site like custom domain names
and email services oh and did I mention
it's free so please try Wix today anyway
that's all for today until next time i'm
salmonella and thank you for watching
[Music]